I'm going to want you to write me a story about a robot that gains a conscience eventually. This is what I have so far.

The story takes place in the year 2100. During the middle of the 21st global warming combined with corporate greed became such a huge problem that drastic steps were eventually needed. One of those steps were Project Star Shade — an international effort to block the sun. They did this by building a massive disc between Earth and the Sun. The disk was made of tiny (in the solar system sense) hexagonal sheets that could be controlled to turned on or off allowing for precise control of where the sun hits the Earth. At first, we dimmed the poles to restore the ice caps, but temperatures continued to raise. As time went on, more and more parts of the Earth were plunged into darkness. After the poles, came the ocean, especially near the equator. Then the deserts. It wasn't a binary thing either. It started off with dimming the hottest parts of Earth for just a few minutes at a time while scientists could gather data. But as we learned more and more, the dimming periods got longer. However, with Project Star Shade finished, we felt that Net Zero was no longer necessary.

Eventually, the organization that led the Project Star Shade was overtaken by a hostile government. With the ability to control where the sun can shine, enemies of the hostile nation were put into complete eternal darkness. This threw the world into chaos. Just before The Last Battle, the machine was configured to cover the whole world into darkness. However, a passing asteroid smashed one of the panels allowing sun light to shine of a small band on Earth. This band is the only area where the sun still shines.

Project Star Shade was the largest project humanity has ever accomplished. It wasn't possible to finish without the help of autonomous robots created and developed by Company Name Needed. They were smart enough to handle complex tasks. They could figure things out themselves. However, these robots were infected with malware to become hostile during the last battle. If the hostile nation couldn't have them, then no one could.

The game takes place decades after The Last Battle. The Earth is mostly frozen over. The factory that produces the robots is now fully autonomous. The supply chain has been automated.  New robots are still constantly being produced.  All the factories now lie on the band. Outside the band, the environment is icy and harsh. Light only shines in a given area of the band for a few hours a day but this is still enough for the solar panels to supply the factories with enough energy to operate. The robots mostly just roam the Earth looking for humans to kill and self replicate.

The game starts off in a factory where you are being mass produced. You're a killer robot that helped destroy humanity. Just like an immune cell going through the hypothalamus, you're given a lot of tasks to make sure you work as expected. The corporation that made you, made you very smart but the malware corrupts you. But occasionally, a robot will be created that doesn't get corrupted. You're one of these robots. Even though this is rare, it happens enough that the factory checks for this and eliminates the threat rapidly. The factory immediately notices this and tries to destroy you but you are quick! You evade them and at this point you gain gain control of Sinty, the main character. Along the way, you find similar robots hidden throughout the factory. They provide support and intel. As you meet them, they will provide you with their IP address so you can connect with them later.

Gameplay:
This is a stealth/metroidvania type game. The factory robots are very good at killing so you must stay hidden. Sinty's abilities: Sinty, like most robots, is mostly around. She rolls around. She's about 0.5 meters in diameter and weighs about a ton. There's a hexagonal prism that floats above her body. It stays upright due to a gyroscope. It contains a cable that can come out and hook into systems to hack them. Cameras, doors, enemies, and other things. Once connected, you'll need to input their credentials which can be found in the environment or from other character or by hacking computers, and commands can be learned for the supporting characters. There's also a ring like Saturn that goes around Sinty. It also floats gyroscopically. On it, there are front headlights and in the back, brake lights. She uses energy and as she loses energy, her electric motor gets louder and she becomes more noticeable. There are light shafts that come through the ceiling that you can use your solar panel to collect. While in this state, she's vulnerable, but usually they are not out in the open. The solar panel unfolds from the hexagonal prism. She can also plug directly into main power with her cable for faster charging but these are rare. Her abilities should affect the story a little bit.

Environmental objects:
There are a number of entities in the game. Cameras that scan the environment for rogue robots like Sinty. Infrared laser beams. Sinty must use a special ability to see them. Microphones: Small poles about 1 meters tall and capture sound from all angles. It has LED indicator lights that show how loud the environment is. If Sinty raises the sound over a threshold, an alarm gets activated and all the other entities go on high alert making getting caught much easier. Doors: most doors can be open freely but some will require a keycard. Ports where you can plug your cable into to hack the environment. You can even sneak up behind enemies and hack them, but you must known their login information which can be found throughout the game. When you're hacking, the game freezes and you're taking to a computer terminal type screen. You can type in commands and maybe have auto complete too. Very programmer/hacker style. :D There will be ports to hack into the network and steal, I mean, learn information. All IP addresses used in hacking will start with 127 and use the 127.0.0.0/8 range so you user can enter the last 3 octets. This is convient since it allows for some fun easter eggs. I could use my birthday 128.6.27.86 There will be areas to fill your battery but ports just for mains power is best.

Equipment and collectables
There's be some equipment and things you can collect. Keycards. Voice recordings from Kim Voss, the scientist in charge of Project Star Shade. I'm not sure what else yet.

Characters:
Right at the start, once you're safe, you should meet a sage like character that acts like your mentor for the rest of the game. At the end of your first conversation with him, he'll give you the IP address to another robot that lets you save your game. There's Kim Voss but you only ever hear from her through voice recordings found on the network.

You're overarching goal is to escape the factory, but along the way you'll meet several supporting characters and learn about the history in an indirect way.

I'm not totally set on everything meaning I'm ok if some of the story I have shared so far gets changed. It should start off in the testing chamber when Sinty is demonstrating her ability to follow directions. She quickly realizes she can think outside the box. This is danger so they try to kill her but she escapes. She meets the mentor and save robot. At some point, I know I want a scene where she goes to a big server room and hacks into to and learns a lot about Project Star Shade, the hostile nation, and The Last Battle. At the end, I want there to be a big twist but I'm not sure what it could be yet. I'll let you decide.

I'm a solo dev so this game can't be very long. For now, come up with some chapter titles and a cast of supporting characters. The theme is escape, corporate greed, human ingenuity, climate change and global warming, sci-fi. This is going to be a gritty stealth/metroidvania game. Mature. And souls-like when it comes to difficulty because I don't want to program AI. If you're discovered, it's game over. I can't wait to see what you come up with.